# DailyBot

## Introduction

This repository provides the code for the second prototype of the chatbot model. It consists of 4 files: a python file, a python notebook file, a model called 'best_model.h5', and a json file. The python file, named "Chat Bot.py" is the main file that should be run to try out the chatbot's features. It takes in user queries, preprocesses them, runs them through the "best_model.h5" file, and returns a response. The reason I did not build the model in the 'Chat Bot.py' file and instead added it in a separate component is because I did not want to have to train the model every time I wanted to use it since that would be time consuming. The python notebook, 'DailyBot Chatbot Construction.ipynb', shows how the 'best_model.h5' file is built and trained. 

Note: This prototype has a feature that stores unidentified user queries in a file called "no_intent_queries.txt" that is created by the code itself. This file is autogenerated and is not needed prior to running the code. 

## Installation

The code used to run the chatbot utilizes dependencies that are not built-in. Therefore, they will have to be manually installed prior to running the code.
I have included the versions of each package that I have used, but installing the latest package should be sufficient. 

The packages utilized in the code are Keras (2.4.2), tensorflow (2.1.0), nltk (3.5), autocorrect (2.3.0), and textblob (0.15.3).


Below are the commands needed to run the foreign libraries:

```
pip install Keras
pip install tensorflow
pip install nltk
pip install autocorrect
pip install textblob
```

## Running the Code

Ultimately, running the code can be done without any additional preperation. The 'Chat Bot.py' file should be able to run successfully as long it has access
to the 'best_model.h5' file and the 'data.json' file. 

Note: The chatbot file does export pickle files ('.pkl' format), but that is for personal reference and is not needed for running the code. 

To understand how the 'best_model.h5' model is created, the python notebook named 'DailyBot Chatbot Construction.ipynb' shows all the details. The python notebook also shows a preview of the json file used to train the data.
